docs/30-dev-env/2-dev-setup.mdx, before:

import Screenshot from "@site/src/components/Screenshot";

# 👐 Setup dev environment

<details>
  <summary>🦹 If you are doing this lab as part of a MongoDB GenAI Developer Day, you can continue in the Codespace you previously created.</summary>

    Navigate to [this](https://github.com/codespaces/new/mongodb-developer/genai-devday-notebooks?quickstart=1) link. Click the **Resume this codespace** button to resume the code space you created previously.

    <Screenshot url="https://github.com/codespaces" src="img/screenshots/30-dev-env/2-dev-setup/1-resume-codespace.png" alt="Resume codespace" />

    Give the codespace a few seconds to restart. When files appear under the Explorer, click the file named `ai-agents-lab.ipynb`. This is the Jupyter Notebook you will be using throughout this lab.

    <Screenshot url="https://github.com/codespaces" src="img/screenshots/30-dev-env/2-dev-setup/3-nav-notebook.png" alt="Navigate to the notebook" />
</details>

## Option 1: GitHub Codespaces

You will be working in a Jupyter Notebook in a GitHub Codespace throughout this lab. A codespace is a cloud-hosted, containerized development environment that comes pre-configured with all the tools you need to run this lab.

Navigate to [this](https://github.com/codespaces/new/mongodb-developer/genai-devday-notebooks?quickstart=1) link. You will be prompted to sign into GitHub if you haven't already. Once signed in, click the **Create new codespace** button to create a new codespace.

<Screenshot url="https://github.com/codespaces" src="img/screenshots/30-dev-env/2-dev-setup/2-create-codespace.png" alt="Start a codespace" />

Let it run for a few seconds as it prepares your environment. It will clone the repository, prepare the container, and run the installation scripts. Once the environment is built, you should see a list of files appear under the Explorer. 

In the left navigation bar of the IDE, click on the file named `ai-agents-lab.ipynb` to open the Jupyter Notebook for this lab.

<Screenshot url="https://github.com/codespaces" src="img/screenshots/30-dev-env/2-dev-setup/3-nav-notebook.png" alt="Navigate to the notebook" />

Next, select the Python interpreter by clicking **Select Kernel** at the top right of the IDE.

<Screenshot url="https://github.com/codespaces" src="img/screenshots/30-dev-env/2-dev-setup/4-select-kernel.png" alt="Select kernel" />

In the modal that appears, click **Python environments...** and select the interpreter that is marked as **Recommended** or **Global Env**.

<Screenshot url="https://github.com/codespaces" src="img/screenshots/30-dev-env/2-dev-setup/5-python-env-modal.png" alt="Select Python Environments" />

<Screenshot url="https://github.com/codespaces" src="img/screenshots/30-dev-env/2-dev-setup/6-select-recommended.png" alt="Select recommended interpreter" />

That's it! You're ready for the lab!

## Option 2: Run locally

:::caution
During the lab, we will use GitHub Codespaces. These instructions are here just in case you can't use Codespaces or if you really, really, really want a local installation.
:::

If you want to run the notebook locally, follow the steps below:

* Clone the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/mongodb-developer/genai-devday-notebooks.git) for this lab by executing the following command from the terminal:

```
git clone https://github.com/mongodb-developer/genai-devday-notebooks.git
```

* `cd` into the cloned directory:

```
cd genai-devday-notebooks
```

* Create and activate a Python virtual environment:

```
python -m venv mongodb-ai-agents-lab
source mongodb-ai-agents-lab/bin/activate
```

* Install and launch Jupyter Notebook:

```
pip install notebook
jupyter notebook
```

* In the browser tab that pops up, open the file named `ai-agents-lab.ipynb`.

<Screenshot url="localhost:8888/tree" src="img/screenshots/30-dev-env/2-dev-setup/7-jupyter-notebook.png" alt="Jupyter Notebook" />

Commit message:

Adding install instructions for local setup

docs/30-dev-env/2-dev-setup.mdx, after:

import Screenshot from "@site/src/components/Screenshot";

# 👐 Setup dev environment

<details>
  <summary>🦹 If you are doing this lab as part of a MongoDB GenAI Developer Day, you can continue in the Codespace you previously created.</summary>

    Navigate to [this](https://github.com/codespaces/new/mongodb-developer/genai-devday-notebooks?quickstart=1) link. Click the **Resume this codespace** button to resume the code space you created previously.

    <Screenshot url="https://github.com/codespaces" src="img/screenshots/30-dev-env/2-dev-setup/1-resume-codespace.png" alt="Resume codespace" />

    Give the codespace a few seconds to restart. When files appear under the Explorer, click the file named `ai-agents-lab.ipynb`. This is the Jupyter Notebook you will be using throughout this lab.

    <Screenshot url="https://github.com/codespaces" src="img/screenshots/30-dev-env/2-dev-setup/3-nav-notebook.png" alt="Navigate to the notebook" />
</details>

## Option 1: GitHub Codespaces

You will be working in a Jupyter Notebook in a GitHub Codespace throughout this lab. A codespace is a cloud-hosted, containerized development environment that comes pre-configured with all the tools you need to run this lab.

Navigate to [this](https://github.com/codespaces/new/mongodb-developer/genai-devday-notebooks?quickstart=1) link. You will be prompted to sign into GitHub if you haven't already. Once signed in, click the **Create new codespace** button to create a new codespace.

<Screenshot url="https://github.com/codespaces" src="img/screenshots/30-dev-env/2-dev-setup/2-create-codespace.png" alt="Start a codespace" />

Let it run for a few seconds as it prepares your environment. It will clone the repository, prepare the container, and run the installation scripts. Once the environment is built, you should see a list of files appear under the Explorer. 

In the left navigation bar of the IDE, click on the file named `ai-agents-lab.ipynb` to open the Jupyter Notebook for this lab.

<Screenshot url="https://github.com/codespaces" src="img/screenshots/30-dev-env/2-dev-setup/3-nav-notebook.png" alt="Navigate to the notebook" />

Next, select the Python interpreter by clicking **Select Kernel** at the top right of the IDE.

<Screenshot url="https://github.com/codespaces" src="img/screenshots/30-dev-env/2-dev-setup/4-select-kernel.png" alt="Select kernel" />

In the modal that appears, click **Python environments...** and select the interpreter that is marked as **Recommended** or **Global Env**.

<Screenshot url="https://github.com/codespaces" src="img/screenshots/30-dev-env/2-dev-setup/5-python-env-modal.png" alt="Select Python Environments" />

<Screenshot url="https://github.com/codespaces" src="img/screenshots/30-dev-env/2-dev-setup/6-select-recommended.png" alt="Select recommended interpreter" />

That's it! You're ready for the lab!

## Option 2: Run locally

:::caution
During the lab, we will use GitHub Codespaces. These instructions are here just in case you can't use Codespaces or if you really, really, really want a local installation.
:::

If you want to run the notebook locally, follow the steps below:

* Clone the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/mongodb-developer/genai-devday-notebooks.git) for this lab by executing the following command from the terminal:

```
git clone https://github.com/mongodb-developer/genai-devday-notebooks.git
```

* `cd` into the cloned directory:

```
cd genai-devday-notebooks
```

* Create and activate a Python virtual environment:

```
python -m venv mongodb-ai-agents-lab
source mongodb-ai-agents-lab/bin/activate
```

* Install the dependencies for this lab:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

* Install and launch Jupyter Notebook:

```
pip install notebook
jupyter notebook
```

* In the browser tab that pops up, open the file named `ai-agents-lab.ipynb`.

<Screenshot url="localhost:8888/tree" src="img/screenshots/30-dev-env/2-dev-setup/7-jupyter-notebook.png" alt="Jupyter Notebook" />
