docs/50-dev-env/1-dev-setup.mdx, before:

import Screenshot from "@site/src/components/Screenshot";

# 👐 Setup dev environment

You will be working in a Jupyter Notebook throughout this lab. The easiest and recommended way to run the lab notebook is using Google Colab. 

Navigate to the notebook on [GitHub](https://github.com/mongodb-developer/ai-agents-lab-notebooks/blob/main/notebook_template.ipynb) and click the **Open in Colab** badge at the top of the notebook to open it in Google Colab.

<Screenshot url="https://github.com/mongodb-developer/ai-agents-lab-notebooks" src="img/screenshots/50-dev-env/1-open-colab.png" alt="Open in Colab" />

That's it! You're ready for the lab!

## Local setup

If you want to run the notebook locally, follow the steps below:

* Clone the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/mongodb-developer/ai-agents-lab-notebooks.git) for this lab by executing the following command from the terminal:

```
git clone https://github.com/mongodb-developer/ai-agents-lab-notebooks.git
```

* `cd` into the cloned directory:

```
cd ai-agents-lab-notebooks
```

* Create and activate a Python virtual environment:

```
python -m venv mongodb-ai-agents-lab
source mongodb-ai-agents-lab/bin/activate
```

* Install and launch Jupyter Notebook:

```
pip install notebook
jupyter notebook
```

* In the browser tab that pops up, open the notebook named `notebook_template.ipynb`.

<Screenshot url="localhost:8888/tree" src="img/screenshots/50-dev-env/2-jupyter-notebook.png" alt="Jupyter Notebook" />

Commit message:

callout to copy Colab notebook

docs/50-dev-env/1-dev-setup.mdx, after:

import Screenshot from "@site/src/components/Screenshot";

# 👐 Setup dev environment

You will be working in a Jupyter Notebook throughout this lab. The easiest and recommended way to run the lab notebook is using Google Colab. 

Navigate to the notebook on [GitHub](https://github.com/mongodb-developer/ai-agents-lab-notebooks/blob/main/notebook_template.ipynb) and click the **Open in Colab** badge at the top of the notebook to open it in Google Colab.

:::tip
The notebook will open in Google Colab in read-only mode. Please **make a copy of the notebook** to keep the code changes you will make during this workshop for future reference.
:::

<Screenshot url="https://github.com/mongodb-developer/ai-agents-lab-notebooks" src="img/screenshots/50-dev-env/1-open-colab.png" alt="Open in Colab" />

That's it! You're ready for the lab!

## Local setup

If you want to run the notebook locally, follow the steps below:

* Clone the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/mongodb-developer/ai-agents-lab-notebooks.git) for this lab by executing the following command from the terminal:

```
git clone https://github.com/mongodb-developer/ai-agents-lab-notebooks.git
```

* `cd` into the cloned directory:

```
cd ai-agents-lab-notebooks
```

* Create and activate a Python virtual environment:

```
python -m venv mongodb-ai-agents-lab
source mongodb-ai-agents-lab/bin/activate
```

* Install and launch Jupyter Notebook:

```
pip install notebook
jupyter notebook
```

* In the browser tab that pops up, open the notebook named `notebook_template.ipynb`.

<Screenshot url="localhost:8888/tree" src="img/screenshots/50-dev-env/2-jupyter-notebook.png" alt="Jupyter Notebook" />
